In Node.js, the `EventEmitter` class is a core part of the `events` module, and it provides a simple and powerful mechanism for handling events in a publish-subscribe pattern. It allows objects to emit and listen for custom events.

Here's a basic example demonstrating the use of the `EventEmitter` class:

```javascript
const { EventEmitter } = require('events');

// Create an instance of EventEmitter
const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();

// Define an event handler
const onMyEvent = (arg) => {
  console.log('Event triggered with argument:', arg);
};

// Attach the event handler to the 'myEvent' event
myEmitter.on('myEvent', onMyEvent);

// Emit the 'myEvent' event with an argument
myEmitter.emit('myEvent', 'Hello, EventEmitter!');

// Remove the event handler
myEmitter.removeListener('myEvent', onMyEvent);

// This will not trigger the event handler because it has been removed
myEmitter.emit('myEvent', 'This will not be logged');
```

In this example:

1. We create an instance of `EventEmitter` using `const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();`.
2. We define an event handler function (`onMyEvent`) that will be executed when the event is emitted.
3. We attach the event handler to the `'myEvent'` event using `myEmitter.on('myEvent', onMyEvent);`.
4. We emit the `'myEvent'` event with the argument `'Hello, EventEmitter!'` using `myEmitter.emit('myEvent', 'Hello, EventEmitter!');`.
5. We remove the event handler using `myEmitter.removeListener('myEvent', onMyEvent);`.
6. When we emit the event again, it won't trigger the event handler because it has been removed.

This is a basic example, and there are several other methods provided by `EventEmitter` for working with events, such as `once` for attaching a one-time listener, `removeAllListeners` for removing all listeners for an event, and more.

Here's another example using the `once` method:

```javascript
const { EventEmitter } = require('events');

const myEmitter = new EventEmitter();

// Define a one-time event handler
myEmitter.once('onceEvent', () => {
  console.log('This will only be logged once');
});

// Emit the 'onceEvent' event multiple times
myEmitter.emit('onceEvent');
myEmitter.emit('onceEvent');
```

In this case, the event handler will only be called the first time the event is emitted due to the use of `once`.

The `EventEmitter` class is a fundamental building block for creating event-driven architectures in Node.js. It's commonly used in various libraries and frameworks for handling asynchronous events.

```
import { EventEmitter } from 'node:events';
const ee1 = new EventEmitter({ captureRejections: true });
ee1.on('something', async (value) => {
  throw new Error('kaboom');
});

ee1.on('error', console.log);
```
The 'error' events that are generated by the captureRejections behavior do not have a catch handler to avoid infinite error loops: the recommendation is to not use async functions as 'error' event handlers.
